Colombia Edward Sandoval Chiroso
Fragrant sweetness, with unique aromatics and high toned complexity. Raw sugar notes, with juicy acidity, white grape, pink gum, tart hints of jamaica tea and yellow cherry, delicate tea, and so much more! City to City+.
This Chiroso coffee from Edward Sandoval has a fragrant sweetness to it, with unique aromatics and high toned complexity. At City roast level, the sweetness of the ground coffee has raw sugar notes, with delicate floral accent that brought to mind dried potpourri. The wet aroma has a very attractive floral tea note, like jasmine pearl tea, mixed with accents of grape and mango. The cup is freighted with aromatic sweetness. Refined flavors touch on the floral aspects of raw sugars, like panela and demerara. The acidity is juicy and bright, impressive for Colombian coffee, with a tartaric characteristic that plays into a flavor note of white grape. The cup flavors open up to a note of pink bubblegum, with tart hints of hibiscus drink, and yellow cherry. I found body to be fairly light at City roast level, but it works to highlight some of the more delicate grace notes, and tea-like characteristics. I'm sure this coffee will shine at any roast level, but light roasts are highly recommended. It's aromatic, fruited, and shouldn't be obfuscated by dark roasting.

Process MethodWet Process (Washed)CultivarHeirloom TypesFarm GateYes
We were lucky enough to procure another Chiroso lot this year from Edward Sandoval, in Tolima. The variety "Chiroso" is prized for aromatic flavors of fruit, tea, and even florals. Chiroso's coming out was a sort of rediscovery at the Colombia COE in 2012, when a farmer from Urrao won 1st place with it. Initially thought to be regressions of Bourbon and Caturra, a scientific journal article recently presented the findings of new research that linked its origin to Ethiopian landraces. This would certainly explain their flavor profile! here are two types known at this time, what they call locally "Bourbon" Chiroso, and "Caturra" Chiroso, the former being much taller in stature. The farmer who produced this lot, Edward Sandoval, worked for many years as a field technician for the Federacion Nacional de Cafeteros ("FNC"). When he broke away from the FNC and set out to start his own farm, Finca Canta Ranas, he decided to plant varieties that were not promoted by his previous employer due to their need for a higher degree of management, but that are capable of producing a higher value cup, like Chiroso, Wush Wush, Gesha and Moka (we bought his Moka a few years back). Edward's farm is small, just 3 hectares, and stretches up to about 1850 meters above sea level. We were able to pick up a slightly 
Region	Santa Isabel, Tolima
Processing	Wet Process (Washed)
Drying Method	Covered Sun-Dried
Arrival date	December 2024 Arrival
Lot size	12
Bag size	70 KG
Packaging	GrainPro Liner
Farm Gate	Yes
Cultivar Detail	Chiroso
Grade	Excelso 15+
Appearance	.2 d/300gr, 15-17 Screen
Roast Recommendations	City to City+
Type	Farm Gate
